Hey, what's your name?
Juliette.
Juliette? like the play?
Yeah.
- Is that a thing here too?
- Yeah.
Where are you from?
I came from outside, from another silo.
What silo?
There's 50.
Fifty?
Yeah, this is 17.
So, the closest ones are 15, 16 and 18.
So, how far did you walk?
- I don't know, like--
- Where was the sun?
I don't-- Who--
Look, who are you?
Hey. No, wait!
Look, I wanna talk,
but you're gonna have to--
You have to give me something.
My name is Solo.
Solo?
Yes.
Solo what?
Just Solo.
'Cause I'm in here all by myself.
So I'm Solo.
And no one forced the people out.
They chose to leave.
And when they did it was a nice day.
Everybody was smiling
but then that dust started to blow again,
and I think the poison
went away for a bit but it came back
and a lot of it,
and that's when they all died.
But people who go out to clean,
they're dead in three minutes.
So, how did they survive longer than that?
I don't know. How did you?
I had a suit on and--
Hey, did you get sent out like Ron?
- Ron? Who's Ron?
- Ron Tucker.
The cleaner who didn't clean.
He thought it was safe outside.
He wanted to go out.
But when he did, he didn't clean.
He just-- He wrote "lies"
in the dirt on the lens.
Then he just went around
the corner out of sight.
Then two days later,
they painted on the screen, "lies,"
right over what he had written,
and that's when the fighting started.
So Russell put me in here.
Russell was the head of IT.
I was his shadow.
And Russell told me,
"Don't, no matter what,
never let anyone in the vault... ever."
But why did everyone go out?
'cause they thought it was safe.
'Cause this guy said it was safe,
that's why they just...
No, because
they didn't see him die.
They didn't see him die.
So they thought maybe,
you know, maybe he was still alive.
And then everyone went out?
Yeah.
What?
I didn't fucking clean.
A suit-- I need to get back.
Wait! What?
- Get your hands off him!
- Mom...
Mom! Go home!
It's gonna be okay! I'll be all right!
Teddy!
He was set up.
They put the graffiti up themselves.
He was not set up.
He did it. And I told him I was proud.
This is our home down here.
These are our walls,
and we can mark them up if we want.
Except they have him now.
We all know
what you're afraid of, Evelyn.
We all know what they can do.
They're gonna want to make an example
out of someone from Mechanical.
But we're not gonna let 'em.
- Are we?
- No.
We're not gonna let it be your son.
So, why am I here?
I thought we should start with The Order.
Well, I tried to forget everything.
Especially that.
But some things remain.
"In the event of a failed cleaning,
prepare for war."
And graffiti.
You're supposed to crack down on graffiti.
Particularly anything
that might support a rebellion.
Or "Anything that glorifies
- the person who failed to clean."
- "...who failed to clean."
Have you made
any arrests for the graffiti?
One man down in Mechanical.
What did he write?
Same as I saw yesterday.
Juliette lives.
Did you catch him on camera?
No, we were tipped.
Most of the cameras
below 120 have been knocked out.
Nichols must have told them.
How did she know about the cameras?
As far as I can tell,
she simply figured it out.
She really was something, wasn't she?
Outside of my analytics entirely.
I only met her twice.
She didn't strike me as
someone who would want to go out.
She was caught with a red-level relic.
A hard drive from before the rebellion.
What was on it?
Other than a 200-year-old cleaning video
that Nichols flashed on the screen,
I don't know. I destroyed it.
Did she say that she wanted to go out?
- She was going out no matter what.
- But did she say it?
Yes. She said it.
The next time
you make an arrest for graffiti,
make sure they're from
the Up Top or the Mids.
The Order says--
The Order says to blame Mechanical and
unite the rest of the Silo against them.
I know that.
But Juliette...
she was singular.
No one had ever done
anything like that before.
So you need to think outside of The Order.
I'm not saying it'll be easy.
It might be like
trying to think of
a color that you've never seen.
But try.
And release the man from
Mechanical that you arrested.
Show some mercy.
Now, if you don't mind, I'd really
like to get the fuck out of here.
Juliette went to Silo number 17?
Yes.
Could she survive in there?
Unlikely.
That silo's been dead for a long time.
From before I made you my shadow.
Shit.
How are we doing on
the people I had you pull in?
The ones that may have seen
what Nichols put on their computers.
They're all being put on the medication.
Saying it's for anxiety.
What about the two that helped Nichols?
Patrick Kennedy and Danny Bly.
They're in Judicial seclusion.
- Have they been medicated yet?
- No.
Why?
Don't know why
they have to tie these so damn tight.
There we go.
All right?
Do you know who I am?
Everyone knows who you are, Sims.
Parents threaten their children with you
if they don't eat their broccoli.
Kids gotta eat their broccoli.
I eat mine.
You gonna let me go?
I'm gonna need
a little bit more than that.
Oh, yeah.
What more can I give you?
You already took Doris.
Your wife?
Yes, my wife, fucknuts.
There is nothing more
that you can take from me.
And I've seen things.
I know things.
I know it's all a fucking lie.
So how about we skip ahead to the part
where you stick a knife in my eye?
Not everyone who knows things has to die.
Can you stop
saying mysterious shit, please,
for just a second, and get
to why the fuck I'm here?
There's a drug.
It makes you forget.
Forget what?
We'd start with
the things we want you to forget.
Small dose should take
care of the last few weeks.
What about a big dose?
We can take you back to before Doris died.
How would that work?
What do I--
Wander around, wondering where she went?
No. If this drug is real,
then I'm gonna go all the way back.
I wanna go back 22 years.
To before I met her.
I want you to do that.
Because it's easier that way.
We can do that for you.
But there's something
you gonna have to do for us first.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
What was it?
I don't know.
The reason that I asked you to stop by...
Have you finished the report
on Sheriff Nichols's cleaning?
Almost.
I need one more witness statement.
Did Miss Nichols say she wanted to go out?
According to the mayor,
Mr. Sims and four of the five raiders
that were there, she did.
I'm speaking to the fifth shortly.
Well, then I'll let you get to it.
Your Honor...
I have the Syndrome.
Sims told me an allowance had been made.
I support his decision.
It's time that we remove the stigma
caused unnecessarily by a few...
discriminatory phrases in the Pact.
You know, there's a theory
about what causes the Syndrome.
That it's not a blood disorder
or a vitamin deficiency,
it's just a natural human reaction
to an unnatural situation.
Human beings are not
meant to live underground.
None of us have walked
a straight line for more than 200 feet.
Except for Juliette Nichols.
When you finish
the report on her cleaning...
let me see it first.
Hey!
What's that?
Open it.
What is it?
It's chicken stew.
It's not bad.
I mean, I don't know,
I can't tell anymore,
but I remember liking it at first.
Oh, shit.
- What?
- Nothin'.
Just, wow, you were really hungry.
No suit?
Well, I found, like, some belts and stuff,
but, like, ten feet of fabric
that wasn't destroyed.
That's not enough to make
a suit and then my suit.
I tore it to fucking shreds, so, no.
Well, the suits were
only assembled in Room S.
And the material for the suits
is in Critical Supply.
But that's--
Underwater?
I hope they don't get wet.
Sorry, what?
I hope they do--
Huh?
- I--
- I know,
I'm just-- I was trying to do a joke.
But it's been a while, sorry.
- Juliette?
- Yeah?
Why didn't you clean?
- 'Cause I said I wasn't gonna.
- Yeah, everybody says that.
You know, I figured out why people clean.
You know...
people-- they end up cleaning,
'cause when they get outside, they--
they see this beautiful sky,
and they see beautiful trees
and grass and fucking flowers.
And they feel like they need to.
They wanna tell everyone on
the inside what it really looks like.
How beautiful it is.
- Yeah, but you didn't.
- No.
No, I didn't,
'cause it's fucking bullshit.
It's bullshit, 'cause I've seen
a recording of someone else's cleaning,
where there were, like,
a bunch of creatures,
they were going across the sky--
Birds. They're called birds.
Okay. So when I went out,
I saw these birds, right?
But the way they were moving
was exactly like the ones
that I had seen from that cleaning.
But exactly.
So, I knew that it wasn't the display
in the cafeteria that was a lie,
it was what I was seeing.
In the helmet.
- I don't know how they do it.
- Very advanced computers.
Okay, sure.
But it was a fucking lie, right?
So why would I clean?
No, I didn't clean.
I walked.
I walked and I walked
and I didn't think that what I was doing
could lead to what happened here.
- That I didn't know.
- You couldn't know.
Why are you alive?
Everyone else is dead,
but you survived. How?
I just-- If I didn't,
who would guard the vault?
No, but, like, how long
have you been in there? How--
Alone, you say, and you have food, so--
I just do my job, you know.
I just keep the door shut.
I don't open it.
- Ever?
- No.
'Cause clearly someone's
tried to get in, so...
I like to read, I play music--
Solo? Can I just ask-- The--
The bodies outside in the hall,
they're not as old as the other ones.
So...
What happened?
I haven't been able to find food,
so thank you.
It was really nice.
Thank you.
I wasn't being nice,
I just needed you to eat the food.
Why?
'Cause if you ate the food,
then I would know that you were real
and I wasn't imagining you.
You imagine people?
Wh-- Hey-- No, Solo.
I--
That's from when you
saved those kids from that madman.
What was his name?
I never speak it.
Like he never was.
That's good.
And this.
No raider can match
your marks on the pistol range.
Still can't.
Right you are, Reggie.
Right you are.
While I appreciate the visit, Mr. Sims--
You can call me Rob.
No, sir, I can't--
It'll come as no surprise to you that all
retired raiders are being brought back
due to the state of emergency.
As they should.
As we all should.
What may come as a surprise to you,
is you're being sent down to Mechanical.
A man my age?
I figure we have a long history together,
helping each other.
Calling in your debt.
You asked for five minutes alone
with Archie Brent.
I gave you ten.
Just tell me I don't have to stay long
in Mechanical.
Something about the air down there.
Not long at all.
Hey. Boss-- Hey. We didn't get to talk--
- I don't have time.
- It's-- It's important.
I asked you to watch Shirley
to find out what she's up to.
Instead, you join her.
You surprised that I know that?
You think I only asked you to watch her?
Okay, yeah, I--
I was there, but--
That's why we need to talk.
I appreciate you
coming up all this way, Jean.
I know it's a long walk.
I know what I saw! I'm not lying!
Now, in the section of the Pact dealing
with the responsibilities of the sheriff,
it states that one of them
is submitting a report to Judicial
on every cleaning.
That's why I asked you up.
I didn't see Sheriff Nichols
until she was in custody.
But you were there when she was arrested?
Yes.
In the cornfield?
That's right.
And before she took off running,
what did she say?
Can't sleep?
Yeah. Think I might've misjudged
my coffee cut-off time.
You?
Nerves.
I didn't think we'd get another chance
at the birth lottery,
but with the sheriff going out,
they're holding a bonus one tomorrow,
drawing from the same pool as last time.
My husband keeps telling me
we have better odds.
I wish you luck.
Rick and I want so badly to have a child,
but we wonder
if we should even be having a baby
with everything that's going on.
Having a baby is a venture of hope.
The people who planted these trees
didn't live long enough to sit under them.
Do you have kids?
Uh-huh.
What's it like?
With our first...
I could hear her before I saw her.
My ear to my wife's belly.
You wonder for months who they'll be.
What they'll look like,
and how they'll walk and smile and cry.
And then one day, you meet them.
And they're perfect.
I think I better try to get some sleep.
Phoebe Wells.
Pete Nichols.
- Oh, I am so sorry.
- That's okay.
- What I said before--
- No.
At least some good's come out of it.
And I hope you win.
Thank you.
I better...
Have a good night.
Hey.
- What?
- Oh, hey. Hold on.
I had a thought.
Firefighters.
Yeah? What?
They have helmets. They have suits. They--
They have air tanks.
They go into smoke.
No.
They're not designed
to keep you alive outside. Come on.
Yeah,
but cleaning suits aren't either.
I could use a firefighter suit.
That's not a bad idea.
Yeah, you think so?
- I-- 'Cause I wasn't sure.
- Where could I find one?
Well, fire safety equipment
is in three places.
It's in Engineering, 70 and 23.
- Where on 23?
- Next to Recycling.
- Okay.
- No, hey, but there might be a problem.
I'm sorry. I know it's late.
Has something happened?
Well, you asked to see my report
on Sheriff Nichols's cleaning
before I submitted it.
And it couldn't wait?
I spoke to the five raiders
who helped in the apprehension of Nichols.
Four stated she said she wanted to go out.
But one didn't?
The fifth-- They say
they were just focused on their job.
They say if the others heard her ask
to go out, then that's what she said.
But you're not sure.
When I was taking her up the stairs,
Sheriff Nichols herself
told me she didn't say it.
Wait. You're just saying this now?
I wasn't sure
if I could believe her.
I wanted to talk to the others,
but if witnesses had any doubts,
there should have been an inquiry
before Nichols was sent out.
- It's in--
- It's in the Pact. Yeah.
I know.
- Is there anything--
- No.
I'll take it from here.
Thank you for bringing this
to my attention, Sheriff.
Good night.
Knox.
Shirley, turn around and go home.
- Give us Teddy and we will.
- We're not gonna do that.
Where'd you get the goons?
- Goons? Come on, Shirl. They're deputies.
- Not the ones with the helmets.
I can't let you just take somebody
out of custody!
- Then release him!
- Free Teddy!
Police. Move out!
This is not who we are!
Maybe this is who we are now!
Free Teddy!
Listen, we all want the same thing.
We all want Teddy back.
- Free Teddy! Free Teddy!
- Look--
- Set him free!
- No!
What are you doing?
Get him in the back.
- Coop?
- Cooper!
It's okay.
- You're okay, Coop.
- Coop.
- Hey, buddy. You're okay.
- Coop, we're here.
You're okay.
Coop.
- Coop.
- It's okay.
It's all right.
Buddy?
Somebody help! Please!
Nobody knows the asshole
who kicked it off.
They weren't from Mechanical.
The other one?
Yeah.
Mechanical born and raised.
Terry Cooper.
Sweetest kid you'll ever meet.
He was just--
Yeah, he was just trying
to stop the shithead with the firebomb.
What do you need?
Well, boss,
we need everything.
But first...
we need you.
Thanks for coming.
We're safe down here,
no cameras, no listeners.
Why didn't you just let us do
what we wanted to do?
We would've gotten
Teddy, and everything would be fine.
Really?
You were gonna hide him forever?
We lost Cooper.
I just can't believe it.
Me neither.
Come on. Don't hurt your foot.
You wanna punch something, punch me.
Fuck.
Ah, fuck.
Didn't think you would actually do that.
Neither did I.
Shirl...
you're not the only one who's angry.
You're not the only one who lost Jules.
Yeah, I'm not so sure we lost her.
It's been two days.
We don't know what she saw over that hill.
She might be out there somewhere,
still alive.
Look, I--
All right. All right.
I wanna know the truth
just as bad as you do,
but we can't do it
the way you've been doing it.
Then how?
You remember when we were kids,
and we used to explore down there?
Remember that wall of names we found?
Yeah?
We didn't know what it meant then.
Now I think I do.
One morning at dawn,
I will shut down
the cafeteria display screens
for routine maintenance,
as well as all of the cameras
in the sheriff's office.
I'll operate the air lock,
and you'll have five minutes
to get up over the hill
and out of sight
before I reactivate the screens.
Are you sure you wanna do this?
When do I get my suit?
Well, as head of IT, I have my own suit.
I thought maybe we could modify that.
You're nine feet tall.
Which is why I think
it's best to have your own made.
I'll say it's for a prospective shadow.
Normally, they send a team to measure you,
but as this is going to be
just between you and I,
I will do it.
I'll measure you.
They start with the arms.
Like--
Don't you need
to write them down?
No.
Bernard.
Yes?
May I ask you a question?
Have I been helpful?
You're the only person I can talk to.
But you just need to talk.
My opinion is neither required nor needed.
They are both required and needed.
Yet ignored.
I said that you should release the man
who did the graffiti in Mechanical.
He was released.
Yes, but not until there was a firebombing
and a shooting that claimed two lives.
- Was that you?
- No.
Really? Because it seems
straight out of The Order.
Get them to retaliate,
which in turn stirs up
anti-Mechanical resentment in the Silo,
which allows you to crush a rebellion.
Wasn't me.
Are you sure?
I wouldn't lie to you.
- And yet you already have.
- How?
Juliette Nichols did not ask to go out,
did she?
No.
You got all the measurements
that you need?
Yes.
Well, then you can leave now.
Don't come back without my suit.
Solo?
Solo, you were right.
It's underwater,
but I think I can make it work.
If I drop into the water,
I could go down one level,
and I can maybe make it
through the apartments
and into the alleyway,
but I'm gonna have to build something
that can pump air down to me.
Which means I'm gonna need you
to run it while I'm under.
Solo?
I need your help.
I can't come out!
But you've been out before.
I know-- Look--
The two bodies in the hall--
I'm not supposed to open the door.
You gave me food.
You opened the door to give me food.
- Yeah.
- Yeah?
I don't open the door when you're here.
Look, I don't wanna push you.
I don't need to know what happened here, okay?
I get it.
I know you don't wanna talk about it,
and I know that you've lost everyone
in your life.
But I need to get back.
I need to get back, okay?
And I know you're not supposed
to open the door--
- Well, it's my job.
- But I need you to help me.
Okay?
I need you to help me save m--
10,000 people, Solo.
10,000 people.
Look, I know it's not gonna
make up for what happened here,
but if I could get home--
If you could help me get home,
then maybe we could stop
what happened here from happening there.
But I--
I fucking need you.
Please.
I can't.
"We will get in sooner or later."
Okay.
I get it.
It's okay. I get it.
Thanks for the food, I'll--
I'll see you around.
Wait!
What are you gonna do?
I don't know. I'll--
I'll figure it out.
What are you feeling?
Excited.
Nervous.
No, I mean, are you numb?
Can you feel this?
Sorry.
It's numb.
Good.
There's nothing to be nervous about.
It'll be over before you know it.
Dr. Nichols.
We wanted to let you know
how grateful we are.
And how acutely aware we are that
this possibility only exists
because your daughter--
Thank you.
I hope you have a girl.
You're now free to make a baby.
No. Hold still.
A couple of stitches,
and you'll be good to go.
Don't go!
Do I look bad?
No. I just--
I thought maybe
you'd look different, that--
I've never come out this far.
It's so big. There's...
It seems like it's just so much space.
You wanna see more?
Yeah.
Okay. Where do you wanna go?
You wanna go up?
Up?
Okay.
Come on.
Yeah. Careful.
Hey.
- It's okay. Hey.
- Stop.
- Don't!
- Hey.
No. Wait, did I hurt you? Are you okay?
- No! Yes! Kinda.
- Oh, G-- No, no.
It's not your fault.
- I'm sorry.
- It's okay.
Just sit.
We can just sit.
I'll be here.
It's just been a long time.
I know.
You really are here, aren't you?
Yeah.
Yeah, I am.